---
published: true
tags:
- Reading
- Thoreau
- Life
---

Thoreau led his life in the 1800s, but the words he wrote down still ring true to this very day. 

On mornings:

> Every morning was a cheerful invitation to make my life of equal simplicity, and I may say innocence, with Nature herself.

> They say that characters were engraven on the bathing tub of King Tchingthang to this effect: "Renew thyself completely each day; do it again, and again, and forever again." I can understand that. Morning brings back the heroic ages.

> There was something cosmical about it; a standing advertisement, till forbidden, of the everlasting vigor and fertility of the world. The morning, which is the most memorable season of the day, is the awakening hour. Then there is least somnolence in us; and for an hour, at least, some part of us awakes which slumbers all the rest of the day and night. 

> To him whose elastic and vigorous thought keeps pace with the sun, the day is a perpetual morning. It matters not what the clocks say or the attitudes and labors of men. Morning is when I am awake and there is a dawn in me. Moral reform is the effort to throw off sleep. Why is it that men give so poor an account of their day if they have not been slumbering? They are not such poor calculators. If they had not been overcome with drowsiness, they would have performed something. The millions are awake enough for physical labor; but only one in a million is awake enough for effective intellectual exertion.

> We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by mechanical aids, but by an **infinite expectation of the dawn**, which does not forsake us in our soundest sleep. I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious endeavor. It is something to be able to paint a particular picture, or to carve a statue, and so to make a few objects beautiful; but it is far more glorious to carve and paint the very atmosphere and medium through which we look, which morally we can do.

On living deliberately:

> I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, **discover that I had not lived**.

> I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the **whole and genuine meanness** of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or if it were sublime, to know it by experience, and be able to give a true account of it in my next excursion.

On why pausing can bring greater returns:

> Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life? We are determined to be starved before we are hungry. Men say that a stitch in time saves nine, and so they take a thousand stitches today to save nine tomorrow.

> When we are unhurried and wise, **we perceive that only great and worthy things have any permanent and absolute existence**, that petty fears and petty pleasures are but the shadow of the reality.

These meditations bring me great peace and steadiness, and probably great resonance too, since I see experience as a way of understanding the world. Thoreau probably doesn't believe in experience as the only reliable source of knowledge, since reading is one of his worthy pursuits, but experiences inform our ideas of the world to a great extent, and taking the time to listen to them is valuable. Thinking of mornings with an "infinite expectation" is great motivation too, that it is a reset, a chance to renew oneself. 

More thoughts to come.