---
published: true
tags:
- Yale-NUS
---

Today marks the end of a long and fulfilling semester. School is empty, people are moving out, and I have been spending time chilling on campus, taking time with my meals, taking time to do the things I like to do. Since exams ended, life looked something like this. 

On Tuesday I met my Japanese friend R at Marina Bay Sands, having some takeout from the foodcourt nearby. We had some laksa, beehoon, and yong tau foo, and finished it off with some wine and cheese. We chatted about his plans to bring people from different cultures together, and bringing his students to Singapore next year on New Year's Eve. The main goal is to socialise Japanese people and get them outside their comfort zones. Naturally, I had my reservations, but I also understood that such a project will take time to think about and plan, and to gather people around as well. Then, since R mis-booked his room, I had the night to stay at MBS. Wanted to ask my mom but she had work early the next day, so I invited my suitemates K and G over to MBS. K still had to finish his essay so he spent the entire night doing it, while G did some work and slept in the end. But of course before that we went exploring all that MBS had to offer, going to the gym, going up to the rooftop after feasting on some Macs. The next morning, after a miraculously restful sleep, we went up to the rooftop to have a breakfast buffet at Spago. Amazing scrambled eggs, smoked salmon, bacon, and we really had a feast. After gorging ourselves, K and I went to the pool and admired the cityscape of the Marina Bay area. It really was a sight to behold. The rest of the afternoon, I spent it finishing up my RCA roles, and writing student semester reports. 

On Thursday I spent it wrapping up my capstone work for the semester by talking to my capstone advisor about what I should focus on for the break. Since the first draft of the report is due March 20, he recommended working on the literature review very thoroughly over the break. This means re-reading materials, redefining my focus for the capstone, properly grounding it in current literature, and writing up the section. But before that, I would look through the app I am building again, and touch up on things that I was working on but abandoned halfway because of finals. Then, I worked with G my ecological modelling research, to integrate his code with the current code that I had. I must say that he is quite the smart cookie, and I really hope he stays interested in this research. I kind of relish my role as the advisor, as it really trains me to look at code other people have written, and understand where it fits in my own code. It also trains me to tidy up my own code so that it is more readable, and that it is just more pleasant to look at. 

On Friday, I met my mom in Sengkang, where we had a good lunch at Ding Tai Fung. We booked tickets to go back to Vancouver, and then accompanied her friend to dog grooming. My goodness, her pomeranian is so so cute, and it makes me wonder what it would be like to have a dog. I know that I'm not ready for a dog at least, for it requires much commitment, and I would get really worried over it. Then I went back to school at night and had a wonderful cheesecake and wine end of semester celebration with Twin Peaks and chatted about the weirdest of things. But that's part of the enjoyment isn't it haha. 

On Saturday, I woke up late, had a nice time journaling and reflecting about the semester, and wrote some thoughts that I had wanted to get out for the longest time but never had the time nor clarity to do so. I joined WC, and his friends to go food-hunting and we went to JB Ah Meng restaurant in Geylang. We had really nice chili crab, bee hoon, pork ribs and kang kong, and then followed it up with a fruit feast. We had jumboo, guava, chiku, rambutan, mangosteen, durian and finally mango. Best quote of the night by a Japanese guy, who said that the durian tasted like "rotten wantons", especially the texture of it. I died completely!! I then skyped X and R, who are in Hokkaido and learned a lot about their jobs as CIR and ALTs. X talked about getting a realism check, and now tempers his expectations about how education in Japan should be. R really loves her supervisor and the amount of effort he puts into his work, but maybe has some family problems since he talks about giving away certain things at home that most families would normally use. Living 1hr apart from each other is hard too, and it can be very tiring to keep traveling back and forth, so X and R take turns. Still it is much more desirable to be staying together eh. 

And today, I am just spending it chilling, looking at another approach to Claris' capstone and searching for Japanese podcasts to listen to over the break. I am by the pool now, typing this post, and will be coming back to this post after a swim! 